In order to get started with step one please click on this button called inputs plus analysis.
And as always whenever you click a button you'll notice that it turns green.
And so when you see this blue column here in the middle on most of these entries here most of these
tabs those are my sample answers for Tony Sharq from shart virtual reality and you can click here to
learn more about Tony.
It's fictional Of course.
And here are your answers and please only input stuff in this entire spreadsheet in white cells and
I'll tell you exactly went to to answer any answers in any cells.
And so before we get started helping you answer some of these questions.
You'll notice that a lot of the parts of each question start with these underscored characters together.
And the reason is number one if you want you can click here and go to any entry anywhere in the entire
course that you've answered.
So for example let's say you answered a question about a cancer seal and don't worry if you don't have
faience experience I'll explain everything to you from scratch.
But you would select that you'll see here that it appears right here accounts receivable and we can
click here to go back to the home screen or we can go here and go to the home screen.
There's many different ways to do stuff in this course.
Or you can just click on these tabs here.
Now if you can't see this please go to View formula bar or up here view formula bar as well.
Okay great.
And another reason why you have all of these different underscored characters is because later in the
course right here in the final outputs part we're going to put all of our fields into the appropriate
fields here on whatever business plan template you choose and we'll get to discussing this a lot more
detail later in the course.
Okay.
Now on the right side here if you scroll over and this is optional you'll never have to look here if
you don't want to.
But right here I created this optional column here so you can select to red flag certain answers so
everything is defaulted towards This is my final question but if you want to come back to a question
you can always go here and select come back to this question.
And you'll notice that right here when you do that a red flag will appear and you'll see up here that
there's one flag for this part of the Course here.
Step one and it doesn't matter where we go in the entire course because wherever we click we're in to
see that up here in the menu we have one flag left.
OK let's go back now to inputs and analysis.
OK great.
And one more thing I want to mention here is if you haven't answered a question yet and you want to
filter you can do so right here by selecting the filter based on questions that have not been answered
yes meaning the word no.
And a lot of these are optional.
As I mentioned before there's two tracks a fast track and the detail track the detail track is just
answering everything.
The fast track is ignoring all the optionals.
OK.
And as you complete each question him watch what happens.
So let me pretend your name is John Smith.
OK.
So right here you're going to see that step one has now been updated in case 6 percent done 6 percent
done.
And this needle for the whole course will move as well.
As you complete your answers and you can override that for every single step by going here and clicking
right here that you're done with that tab and that will change that to 100 percent see 100 percent done.
And we're now done 7 percent of the questions in the entire course this needle moves as well.
And I set it up so that if you minimize this you can actually see your whole progress as well.
OK.
Let me de-select that and let's move on.
So after you enter your first name obviously entry the name your company here as well and then enter
in 15 words or less about what your company does.
And again you can always use my examples here in the middle and blue for sample answers.
Make sure the first words capitalize and don't put a period at the end you'll see why later is a lot
more sense as your business plan is created automatically for you from scratch.
OK so here we have our first optional question which is is this company name of yours used or not.
And you could search the internet to see if it's used or not.
And here you just select that and select yes or no or not a playable.
Here you enter in your e-mail address and your Internet address if you have an internet address that
is if you don't have an internet or a web page set up then I suggest going to Squarespace dot com and
setting up a page there if you want to.
And there's other places online as well that you can do so if you have questions about this please let
me know.
But the Web site for Harroun ventures on my Web site whatever was was created using Squarespace as well
as shark virtual reality dot com which is for the the case.
OK.
So and here you slack.
Have you done a web site created web site or not here.
It's optional but you enter in your business address because it's going to feed into several areas in
your business plan as well as on the cover page and I'll show you that more detail soon.
OK.
And here and this is optional but you can write down if you want why you chose that address.
You know if for example I used to work at a venture capital firm on Market Street in San Francisco in
the Tenderloin District because we were given payroll tax incentives by the local government to locate
there and sometimes you're your investors or whoever is reading your business plan might ask you why
you selected to live or or start your company a certain area.
So just be ready for that.
And this is a very comprehensive exercise here this entire spreadsheet is so that when you submit your
business plan to whoever is going to read it we have left.
No.
No stone unturned.
Answer your phone number here make your cell phone if you want here entering what country your business
is in and make this the primary one where you get a plan to file taxes.
If you're going to file taxes at all.
A lot of times people taken this course will read the business plan but not launch the company.
My goal here is to make sure that we've covered every question you can possibly think of.
So you can decide to weather launch whether you launch your company or not.
This one here is important and I didn't make this optional.
I won't answer this one.
I want you to select who is reading this.
OK and if it's an investor select that if it's you select that if it's your team etc. You can read the
rest of these or not applicable.
And I'm doing this because I want you to tailor how you answer these questions based on who your customer
is.
I mean who's reading this reports.
OK so if you select That's what happens is on every single input tab I always remind you who the reader
is.
Can I also remind you what your business model is so that we don't become victims together of style
drift meaning writing a business model about something that's not important to our core business model.
So I'll give you an example.
If I right here our core product what is it.
Let me just copy and paste what they have here for fun.
Copy and paste and you'll notice that it doesn't matter where we go in the course later we're always
going to be reminded who is reading this business plan and what our business is can this is optional
be you can read this here every tabun says this as you answer all questions keep in mind two things
number one.
What business are you in.
And then number two who's the target reader.
And then here I put it in for you.
Virtual reality software that puts you in movies and video games or whatever your answer is there and
then you wrote that the are you select you the primary reader is its investor.
In this case and I do that also because if you're going to create presentation slides and I won't talk
about this much until we get there in the course but let me click there for a second.
If you're going to create presentations slides and by the way everything that you enter in and all the
questions and steps 1 through 12 will be answered here not 13 but 12th and it'll automatically be populated
you'll have 10 slides here based on your answers that you can use to copy and paste into a number of
different templates that I will provide you with for powerpoint templates.
Click here to get those online.
Or you can get them in the course as well.
And then when you're here you can just click on any area that take you back to where you entered that.
So it's it's hyperlink so if we click there we'll go back to the industry problem part which is covered
here in in in Step 6.
And again if you're ever confused about where you answered something you can always go here and then
just scroll down and look at the answer.
OK.
And I include a lot of sample answers as well.
Explain that.
So if we go up here to back to our first step one turns green.
OK.
And we're not sure if if we entered in an email address then what I've done is if you look here when
I select Here you see here this is your email address that just tags this field and that's mine.
Sample.
So if you go up here you can go down to sample and see what was Chris's answer again for for all these
things for our email address Oh what was Chris's employee recruiting strategy answer.
And I clicked there and it goes directly here.
So the employee recruiting strategy which is step four inputs and then here is your employer recruiting
strategy.
So you can always get into the bottom and then scroll by your to find out more details on what you entered
in if anything for those those those those answers.
OK.
Let's go back here and make some more progress.
And there's always different ways to access each tab.
You can click on the buttons or you can click on the tabs down here or you can click here and go to
whatever tab.
So if I want to go to the Home tab I go there and you get the idea or you can click here to go backwards
or forwards whatever it might be.
Again I like to always provide me different ways to access information in my templates here.
OK.
Moving on.
And if you ever get lost and you're way way down on a certain tab you want to go back to the top.
Just click here and I'll always take you right back to the top here.
Now here this is optional but I won't answer if you're using this business plan to raise money or not
because it will help you later on with how you write your business plan and how you might create your
slides if you do that here you select from the dropdown what your your company was founded and these
fields will fill in will play.
These fields will fill directly into an incredibly intuitive and easy to use process so that your business
plan is created for you.
You'll see and do your business or industry name here.
And here is this is optional.
But select your legal structure here.
Now I'm not a lawyer so I'm not going to give legal advice but going to tell you how I do things.
But I always suggest you speak with a lawyer in your country who understands your laws much better than
I ever will.
But I recommend that if you're going to start this company for real and generate revenue to register
your company because what happens is it protects you and your family from people suing you for whatever
reason especially as you get really successful you'll see people who see you they always do.
But this will protect you so that they can't come after your stuff and you know hurt your standard of
living or take your house away and so a limited liability corporation is called different things in
different countries.
But it's all similar which basically means that your liabilities are limited.
It's called Elsy that sort of thing so I'll let you worry about that if you want and it's all optional.
Now if you're going to file patents now explain what all this stuff means in a second but if you're
going to file patents or copyrights or trademarks you want to select here.
Yes.
No we're not a placable.
Now really quickly.
A patent is a way of protecting the way to do something.
So for example Amazon tried to patent their one click shopping experience.
Right that's a way of shopping if you want to copyright something that means if if you want to create
legal rights for you to own something you can't see feel or touch like music or software code etc..
You can get a copyright done and here a trademark if you want to protect a brand or a slogan like Nike
did with just do it that sort of thing.
So when you file for a patent because the patent court's globally are so backed up you'll notice a lot
of people will say patent pending and legally in many countries patent pending is just as good as patent
filed and received.
And if you want more details on how to do these three things here and again I'm not a lawyer but you
can always click here.
Can I provide you with a number of different types of resources in case so down here there is there
is one on Patten's.
There's one on an NDA which will come to really soon and you can look and look at this stuff online.
And I created a video for you so this one here is called the easiest and cheapest way to file copyrights
patents trademarks and make term sheets cetera.
So if you want more details on that you click that's And then you click what appears here in this hyperlink
and it'll take you directly to a YouTube video or whatever to wash that that I created for you all optional
of course.
OK so moving on right here.
Who's the owner of the company.
And these are all optional right yourself if it's you if it's the number of people write down their
names.
And then here do you plan on having people that read your business plan sign what's called an NDA or
a non-disclosure agreement which means if they sign it then they can't copy or use any of this stuff.
They learn select yes no or it doesn't apply here.
Again consult with a lawyer if you're curious.
On my humble thoughts on this process you can always scroll down and select this video here.
Should you ask investors to sign an NDA.
Please seek your own legal counsel and advice.
But this is just my humble opinion for what it's worth.
OK.
Next up is have you registered your company name.
Say yes no or not applicable right here.
If you want you can do a search online to see if somebody is already trademarked your name or not.
And if you want to watch how to do that you can always just scroll down and select to watch that legal
one that I created here.
The easiest way to fall copyrights trademarks patents.
Make term sheets etc..
OK.
And of course you can do a search online to see if someone's already created the Web site for your company.
And the whole point of this entire process this whole document is to save you money and time as well.
So you know based on your search you might want to call your company something else.
OK.
Next up is do you have business insurance like.
Yes.
No we're not a placable.
And if you start your company and you have employees and you generating revenue then I humbly recommend
getting business insurance against speak to a local lawyer that can help you this.
I'm not a lawyer.
Next you can select.
Have you looked into getting a government grants and a lot of countries will give you grants for your
business and they'll ask you to pay it back or not.
For example when I was I was 18 and I got a student venture capital loan from the government of Canada.
And so I selected Canada here for my my sample country.
And sometimes the flag shows up sometimes it doesn't no probably show up in yours for some reason it
doesn't always show up on mine.
But whatever company or country you select if you scroll down not only can you get details on taxes
and all that good stuff and the big banks in your country and I have data here for every country on
the planet but in many of the countries I try to get data from all of them.
If you click here you can actually go online and get helpful resources from the country you're in.
I'll turn this back on I usually turn off and I'm broadcasting on get those annoying pop ups but if
I were to click here for example for a candidate because I selected Canada.
This will open up a Web site it won't open all these tabs is just web my computer set up and this is
a wonderful place to get resources.
If you have questions about this please let me know and if either the links are incorrect for your country
please let me know and I'll I'll correct them right away.
Thanks.
And you can always tell what country and currency your business plan dashboard here is set up as you
can always come here to the settings to change.
If you want.
OK.
Moving on.
And I'm just going to cut down here.
I'm clicking on here instead of slacking up there because I want to remember where I was instead of
going on Mackley the top.
OK.
Next up here is where you enter your employee names and this is all optional because a lot of people
when they start their companies they actually don't have employee names at all.
And so what you can do is answer them here we're going to do just for fun is I'm going to copy and paste
the names of all my employees into this site here.
OK and let's just pretend to have nine employees and not ten.
OK so I'm going to go here and I'm going to pay special because I want the values and not the blue format.
OK OK scrolling down here.
All right now this part here is completely optional but if you have more than one person in your company
you can write down who's in charge of completing step one who's in charge clean step two step three
rinse and repeat you get the idea all the way down to the end of course and skip this if this isn't
of interest to you.
But if you're working with several employees or in a big company creating a business plan you're going
to love this feature.
So what you'll do is you will select who's going to do this step here.
So what you do is you scroll here select here and then select this dropdown here and you select the
employee.
OK.
So let's say we want Scarlett Johansson or Ryan Reynolds.
These are not real people.
Reynolds actually is Canadian.
It's from a from a country.
OK great so we selected Scarlett Kaye and she is going to do.
And you'll see that all of a sudden up here it appears you know step one is aside.
Is this a sign to Scarlett and Jozen.
And then what you can do is you can enter a date when you want.
Step 1 to be completed and this is all optional because it has optional over here so let's just say
February 1st 2019 for example and you'll see that if you enter in a date here this is going to be updated
right here.
Ok for that step if you did the same thing for step two and this is the last one I'll show you an example
on them.
They'll move on.
But let's say you selected Steve Rogers OK and we enter into a date for Steve to do step two and let's
say we want step 2 which is the cover page to be done by Steve.
By February 3rd 2019 Okay.
And that will appear only on the step to page so if I were to select.
Step 2 watch what happens here you'll see that it changes here to it's assigned to Steve Rogers and
it's due February 3rd.
If you don't enter in anything for those two fields I just told you about then you won't see anything
like for example for Step 3.
I didn't answer.
I didn't enter in anything here.
OK.
But I can't if I want to be on McQuade's.